morning. We are back
live. I'm going to take a quick look at
some
experiments. Not these
ones. Just a very quick
look at the last results of these
experiments. And then I think we're
going to work on some docks. Maybe we'll
work on a sample project. That'll be
better. We'll work on the sample project
for um the demo or the uh the new API
like to demo the new API. It'll be
good. Okay. So, this is what we got out
of sweeps. Um this is not
amazing. So, breakout did like pretty
well but not amazing. But then if we
look at the
well. This is pretty much good enough to
start iterating on though. So I think
what we'll do is we'll spend uh a bit of
time right now on the sample
project and then we will go from there.
And I actually would like to
do, let me
annoying. And it like crashes totally,
doesn't it?
Okay.
So, I will not use the new container. We
will fix the new container uh
tank. And hopefully this gives
us should give us the old container.
invidia. It should not be on Nvidia
runtime.
I love having to debug stupid [ __ ] when
I just want to get
my stuff
done. Well, technically, we don't have
to be able to render it to do the sample
project because I just I don't want to
deal with this right now. I want to do
the sample project and then I want to do
this later in the
day. Maybe we'll just do it that way
instead. We'll go back to this
container.
This is the
new uh 5070 UD to 128
container. So, what we're going to do
with this
I'm trying to think if I want to make
this
like an even
There's no need for me to like make like
a new type of game or something as the
demo project. So, I guess the only
question is do I turn
Squared into the sample
project? I've got four very nice yellow
orioles on the uh the feeder right
outside. Um do I make squared the sample
project or do I make like some dummy
test N as the uh the
sample? I think that is the main
question.
The only thing that bothers me with
square is it's not multi- aent, right?
So, like can I think of like some really
basic that would be more representative
Like I could just make like a go to
target type end, right?
continuous. Do I still have the code for
that uh that old
like I don't have like the old
continuous end,
right? I guess I could make one really
quick and that would be kind of fun and
it would actually be like moderately
useful even.
that. Now it'll support single and
multi-
aent discrete and
continuous. And then the question will
be what else should I do with it? Should
I have
Should I have like a pure Python version
or
no? I guess I technically Let's do the C
version first and then we'll see.
Well, then what do I have squared for?
Actually, if we're doing
I kind of just want a
new a new like little toy M to do stuff
go. We get rid of the
Syon. No longer doing Syon.
I should probably make the um the env
work at some point with this, but we can
do
Oh, you know what we'll do is we'll make
this
one we'll instead of calling this just
example we'll call this um
target. So, we'll just have we'll have
two different levels of examples.
That'll be
easier. Yeah, that makes way more sense
than what I was thinking of earlier.
All right, cool. So, now we have this
one.
would like my autocomplete to freaking
work.
file and then this will
be project. We'll probably just clean up
both of these
Okay, so now we
have
allocations. It's going to be a pain
without being able to render this, but
we will get the initial bits of it done.
see. Do we want to make them be able to
see the other agents?
And honestly, these can go into the C
demo file, right?
Like if I just take
Sir. Yeah. So this log function actually
does not need to
exist.
Um I think what we will
do, we'll kind of shuffle some things.
We'll shuffle some things
around. So on
reset, no need to mess the odds to zero.
And we'll
do this. N this should be entities
actually or
agent. I guess this should be agent.
And then we do
compute observations.
fly. Uh, do we give him a
heading? Oh, I just realized that uh we
I don't have the chat up on my screen.
My bad. Hey,
Captain. Uh, let me explain things
briefly. Ban this bot.
Thank you bot for popping something up
in the corner of my vision so I actually
can grab my
chat inspect fix the background so I can
actually see
it. Hello.
So uh this is just a a sample n captain.
I'm basically I am uh I'm just copy
pasting squared and I'm making uh I'm
going to the goal is to have two sample
ms right we have squared be the ultra
ultra basic one which I'm going to
refactor a little bit with uh you know
the current stuff I know now how to like
make it really simple and then we're
going to have a multi-agent
uh continuous one. So we'll have a
multi-agent continuous one as well that
also has very simple dynamics and very
little code but you know you get to see
that portion as well. So we'll have two
sample M's and then basically they'll be
nicely commented uh and this will be how
you write your own M's and pretty much
anything you need to do should be in
plan dynamics. You'll see it's not going
to take me very long at all to write.
One second.
in. I might as well tell you since it's
going to take a minute before I can bend
my fingers again.
Um, so I'm just going to make a very
simple target end where you got a bunch
of
puffers. You got a bunch of targets and
the puffers have to get to the targets.
That's
it. Really
simple. And then the end will reset or
the targets will
reset to new positions. But the M's
never
will. Need a minute before my fingers
will bend
consider the bad exercise to be doing on
stream. Can't freaking type for a
second.
Okay. Now this compute observations and
first
step the actions are going to be
heading or um steering. I
guess we do float
heading loop over
num
set. Do I not have a me set in
here? How was I doing it in
um I mean any of these M
Okay. And this is kind of all we need to
uh to set I believe.
We could technically set the terminal,
but I don't think there's a need
to, which I think we just zero the uh
the reward like
float
actions I
And uh we can literally just apply this
thing,
right? So we just
do Oh, we also need the agent.
I don't know why my autocomplete isn't
working. Didn't get sweep working. Can I
change down sampling
size from 10 to five? I've actually It's
funny that you said that cuz that's one
of the experiments I've been meaning to
run. Why
um why do you want to do that in
particular? Or is it cuz the uh is it
cuz the recommendations start taking a
while after a bunch of runs or
what? Let me take a look at your
reshape. How do you only get that few
points? If you're only getting seven or
eight like points, that means that like
that's the number of logs you're getting
back from the end. So, yeah, you can
down sample. Each episode is 2K. It
doesn't matter each episode. So, the way
that the down sampling works is it just
it collects logs from the whole of
training. So that means you're only
getting seven or eight logs during the
entirety of
training which doesn't seem right for
200 mil
steps. Let me see this result.
man. That looks like you should run it
for longer, doesn't it? Like it looks
like you cut the run off too short. It
was going up very, very steeply.
Is it an issue with log interval? I
don't know. I'd have to look at the bug
specifically. You can hack it for now.
But um the way that this
works. Okay. So look at this. So this
gets back logs from the end and it tries
to down sample them. Well, where does
this come
from? All
logs. It comes from right here. So,
literally, this just gives you the logs
that come back from training. So, my
guess would be that you're probably just
logging very infrequently, which I think
I can confirm that if I look at your
graph real quick
again, I can show this graph, right?
There's no problem with that.
Um, you don't really have a ton of
points on here. You see, like each of
these clicks is a point. You You don't
have that many points on here. So,
that's probably what's going
wrong. You just have very small amounts
of logs. either issue with log interval
or just the fact that if the episodes
are very long you just don't get very
many logs
back split amongst many copies could be
that happens with like pong for
instance in that case you can just
like you can mess with the interval I
mean sweeps kind of does depend on
having those sample points in order to
like make a good estimate but you can
totally just mess with it for now you
can also also literally just take that
run that you sent me and run it for
longer because it was still going
up. Well, that's what I would suggest
doing and we can chat on that later
today for
sure. I just want to get um this sample
end done while I'm fresh because people
have been asking for sample ms. So, what
I'm doing now is I'm we have squared as
a single agent sample. I'm making a
continuous multi-agent sample n. I'm
going to clean up both of them quite a
bit and then uh you know basically the M
tutorial will be like hey walk through
these repos like okay open this file
notice that this and that and so on and
so
forth want me to reach out to them to
set a
call. Um, we'll run it for longer first
just to see if it does even better
because it's very silly to give people a
graph that's like going up very very
rapidly without having run it for longer
and then yes. Um, you don't even
necessarily need to say like hey let's
talk about this. I think we just deliver
those I think we just deliver them the
result and then they will probably want
to set a call.
Yeah, I generally think it is better to
just ship results and then be available
for meetings like very just be available
for meetings when people want
them. One of the things I've done
lately, you'll notice I don't have any
like regularly scheduled meetings with
you or Aaron or like anybody doing any
stuff on this. It's like it's just you
chat when we when you want to chat, we
chat. And I'm just I make myself pretty
available. I literally have zero
recurring things on my calendar.
Temple M. Yes, exactly. So that's what
I'm doing now.
Okay, so that's the
heading and uh the actions can be
clipped or whatever,
right? And then we just
do x
post
heading like this.
y. Okay, now we have our basic bounce
check code.
um but we also have to compute rewards
don't we
They have to go together I think in this
end which is
fine. I mean, it doesn't even make sense
to
right? Okay. So now we get rid of the
squared dynamics. This is from the old
sample code. None of this is relevant.
And there is nothing that's going to be
in the C close
function. Start on
the update targets
s? All right. So now for this target
finding logic.
Uh we need to go through for each
agent. And now we need to loop for each
target. We'll call this A. Or was
it? We'll do A and T so we don't mess up
the index variables as easily.
We'll
take the agent
here and we'll
do target
distals. Uh there's no need to do a
circular check,
right? I guess maybe it looks slightly
better with a circular check.
this. Okay.
And then we do
N
rewards LF.
Okay. So we have got our
distance less than
10 and actually what we can do
continue and there we go.
This is now our target
this. Well, hang on. We have to update
this one first. So, this is the OBS.
Maybe we do have to run this in two
passes.
Okay, so maybe there is actually
passes. Okay, so maybe there is actually going to be a cleaner way to split this
going to be a cleaner way to split this
stuff up. Let's get this code in place
for now. So,
believe. So we
do int
Okay. Okay. And then we need this exact
same
logic for agent
other see take this and now this is
other
cool. So this is pretty gross. We
other cool. So this is pretty gross. We can definitely make this code a lot
can definitely make this code a lot
cleaner. pretty repetitive, but uh this
is basically what we
want. Yeah, this is like basically what
we want. Let's make sure that we
actually got the observations
correct. Believe we did. Oh, we
definitely
did. Now we have a reset. We've got
step. We don't need a close. We need
this function to exist, but that's about
it.
target. This a 60fps
end. And then we do actually need the
puffer for this.
And let me just see how I
draw the puffer texture
here. Believe I do it like this.
And then this
[Music]
heading. So, it's actually got to be
four.
heading
equals agent I
heading and
then it's if the thing
is abs is less
than what the heck is
this
in
Okay. So, now we do rectangle. What's
this? Rectangle
No, we don't
need this. This just gets
drawn. We just need to know the uh the
puffer width and height, which I believe
is just 64. I think it's just
um let's just get agent
is the initial x which should be agent.x
X -
28 is overfitting a thing in RL like can
I memorize my data set? Yeah,
absolutely. Especially when you're doing
RL on a thing that's just like not a
real problem, which is kind of what
you're doing right
now. It's not a thing. When you're
environment is like some randomized
thing where it's the actual goal task.
When you're environment is like some
dummy toy thing that doesn't represent
the actual task you care about, then it
is a problem, right? There's no such
thing as overfitting a Breakout agent
when your goal is to play Breakout
because that's the actual thing you care
about for that task, right?
But the thing is that if we're overfit,
so are they. So,
XY radius
color. Easy
And I actually I want to draw the
puffers on top. We'll do
this.
Easy.
Oops. So, not even cleaned up or
anything. We're at We don't need any of
this either.
lines. Can you reproduce one of my good
runs
locally on latest dev with CPUon device
having problems? Sure. I actually have
to fix my new container to do that
because I don't have rendering working
on the new containers yet for some
reason.
that. Well, number went higher. Well,
the number should kind of go higher,
right?
I mean, what's the maximum amount of
money you could make if you knew if you
memorize that entire graph, then the
maximum amount of money you could make
is equal to the sum of all the deltas in
the graph, right? So, that's the that's
the high
end. If you just like sum up all the
pointwise, like it's like abs of it's
not the integral because it's like the
absolute value of it or whatever, but
it's, you know, you get the idea.
Okay.
So, let's see if I can get this to
compile and then we're going to have to
fix some
errors. What did I do
Okay, I actually have to
like let me see if I can just do this.
Boom. Why do you look
sad? No
idea. I'm doing pretty good.
Ed, I'm just missing semicolon
somewhere. Dumb.
It doesn't look like
Ah, yeah. So, I totally messed up the
indexing here. This
is make this
see. Yeah. So, we got to be careful with
this.
This is Yep. This is a
goal I
renamed need
I kind of do care if this copies
right. We'll do like
this. But then because that looks jank,
we'll put some
spacing. Okay. And then what we'll do is
this is now
X. That's not
bad. Cool.
I should probably get like a basic LSP
at some
point. To be fair, I really don't spend
much time in the scheme of things
fixing small
things. Okay, so this is
agent and then this needs to all be
refactored to be
G because this is now goal.
And then we have the exact same issues
from before. Basically this is and
percent get the
address and
then other than that we just do this and
we are
good. And how about here? Probably same
thing.
I don't know how I make that same m like
basic basic mistake
repeatedly but
um it's also we would like to use
I also don't know why I
have this
way. Yeah, you don't need this 20 on any
of this
stuff. This is already going to be
scaled negative one to
Okay. And uh
now you know I don't need all these
lines to do this either now do All
initializing target. All right. This is
just I renamed this Truck.
puffer and then we have numbum
targets. Uh we're in the C file now.
targets. Target is not a
pointer. Yes. So this is now these are
just
dots. We no longer need any of this
stuff.
Well, we get to
that. All right. So, this is
Right, we did not allocate
agents. So we need to uh make an init
function for this thing.
believe this is all that needs to be
allocated.
Yes. And then we do
three in here. This is the freeze.
So, we don't call a
net. Probably a good idea.
78. All right. So, possibly
uh do we have the wrong size
observations? This seems fine to me. two
times um agents plus numbum
Okay, let me add that to the container
before I
forget. Have GDB on the container.
Okay. So, this doesn't immediately break
either.
is. I forget where like basic library
things are when I haven't written in a
language for a while.
anything. Probably because I don't
have flush on it.
There we go. We get to
128. And I believe that if I'm correct,
the total obsex, it should be
8, isn't it? 16 *
2. Oh, I just have this thing allocated
wrong, don't I?
wrong. Cool. So now that actually works
and we just get to
uh
this thing
failing. Now, I thought that I had
exported some stuff to make this
Yeah, I'm not implementing this whole
freaking end in pure Python. Screw that.
synced. Now let's figure out
why why this container is broken.
everything. Did I have that commented in
the old um puffer tank? Hang on. cuz I
did install there was a version of
GLFW that I installed that could have
broken some things potentially,
depths. Hang on. There's a whole bunch
of stuff in here that I just didn't add.
Right.
Oh, that's literally it. You just need
lib GLFW3.
Cool. All right. And now we have our
puffer
end. Looks like this. Whoop.
I've got 10ish minutes before breakfast.
So, let's see if we can at least get
this into a a reasonable enough spot.
Yeah. So, these actions are all at zero.
So, this is like
rounding. Oh, I that's weird. I figured
that this would
I thought that the uh the operator
precedence was this, isn't
I must be doing something very dumb
here.
What do I have actions defined as?
Instar. That's
why. All right. Now, here we go. Now the
puffers can go all over the
place. Okay. So now we
have
Now, it should be that if they get like
reasonably close, they uh will get the
target. But anyways, I think that is
um that is pretty decent to start. Let's
see real quick if we can get the binding
to set up.
We probably need to pass a whole bunch
of args now though with height agent
goals.
Okay. So, we have num ms, num
agents, the width
So this is going to be 512
m
goals backend serial to
debug. We get a seg
Actually, I want a couple minutes to do
a few things before breakfast. So,
here's what we're going to do. I'm going
to come back. I'm going to fix training
at right after breakfast. We'll get this
working. We'll clean up the file. We'll
comment this. We'll like clean up and
comment the other one. We'll write some
tutorial docs and then uh we'll pretty
much have the like custom M side of
Puffer set and ready to go. So, for the
folks watching, I'll be back in maybe 40
minutes uh maybe a little
less. If you're interested in all this
stuff, it's all free and open source at
puffer.ai. Want to help me out for free?
Star the repo. You want to get involved
in dev, join the Discord. Be back in a
bit.